RDK Open Development Contribution Framework Code Submission Checklist
(Draft for Internal Review) Contribution Management and Review Guide
(Draft for Internal Review) Contributor Guidelines (Draft for Internal
Review) How to Contribute to Github RDK Open Development -- Contribution
Governance & Validation Process 1 Why This Framework Exists 2 Framework
Overview 3 Key Outcomes 4 Roles and Responsibilities 5 Continuous
Improvement 1 Why This Framework Exists The RDK platform depends on
contributions from diverse teams across geographies, vendors, and
community partners. To maintain reliability while scaling development,
it's essential to have a shared understanding of how code flows from
contribution to release. This framework provides that foundation ---
designed to: Simplify contribution and review. Improve visibility and
accountability. Foster collaboration and community trust. 2 Framework
Overview Focus Area Description Governance & Validation Process Defines
how contributions are made, validated, and merged securely. Contributor
Guidelines Explains how contributors can participate effectively and
responsibly. Contribution Management & Review Guide Describes
expectations for reviewers and maintainers in managing PRs. Code
Submission Checklist Provides a quick self-verification list to ensure
readiness before submission. 3 Key Outcomes When consistently applied,
the RDK Open Development Framework delivers measurable results across
engineering, governance, and community collaboration. Outcome Rationale
Example Impact Consistent Contribution Quality Every PR is validated
against shared technical criteria, preparing for merge readiness.Reduced
post-merge defects and less rework. Transparent Governance and
AccountabilityAll contribution decisions and reviews are documented and
auditable Improved compliance readiness and trust with partners.
Cross-Functional Collaboration Common standards for engineering, QA -
Checklist Seamless integration Community Engagement External
contributors see clear pathways for participation Higher retention and
growth in active contributors Purpose This framework defines how
contributions, reviews, and validations are managed across the RDK open
development ecosystem. It aligns internal teams, vendor partners, and
community contributors under a single, transparent model that promotes
consistency, collaboration, and quality. Guiding Principle Contributors
should feel supported through a clear and consistent process that makes
it easier for good code to succeed.

4 Roles and Responsibilities Role Responsibilities Contributors Submit
code following established guidelines and the checklist; respond
promptly to review feedback. Reviewers / MaintainersReview code for
correctness, security, and adherence to RDK standards; provide
constructive guidance and support continuous improvement. Contribution
Governance TeamCollaborates with both contributors and component owners
to ensure a smooth end-to-end workflow, track follow-ups, and resolve
bottlenecks. Oversees contribution metrics, encourages adoption of good
practices, and maintains transparency across engineering and community
teams. Â  5 Continuous Improvement This framework is expected to evolve
with feedback, tooling improvements, and community needs. Quarterly
reviews will assess: Review timelines and bottlenecks Merge success
rates Contributor engagement metrics CI/CD performance trends All
updates will be documented transparently in Confluence and communicated
through RDK community channels. Perspective These outcomes collectively
move RDK from a code contribution model to a collaborative engineering
ecosystem . Shared Accountability The Governance Team acts as a
connector --- aligning contributors, reviewers, and component owners so
work progresses efficiently and issues are surfaced early.
